Graphical User Interface Design

When designing your user interface, the first question you should ask
is "How big is this application going to be?"  For small applications,
you should design the user interface to have small windows that can
share their space well with other such applications on screen.

For big applications, though, you should design an interface that is
meant to run full screen.  Note, however, that user's may want to also
see your application in a smaller window on screen, and you should
make some, but not too many, provisions for that.  Generally, all the
tools for a big application should be anchored into one window, with
the document being edited.  The layout should be clean and organized
by default, and be customizable to the user's preferences.  Ideally,
most of the user interface should use non-blocking, non-overlapping,
non-modal panes that the user and easily and quickly switch between.
The panes should be consistent, organize common
functions/notifications to common areas and the amount of content that
flashes on and off the screen should be minimized.

One of the most annoying things that you can do with such an
application is make use of modal dialogs: that is, dialogs that the
user must fill out and finish before doing anything else in the
application.  Chances are that the user will want to refer back to
something in their document before they finish filling out the dialog,
in which this user interface being described here is the best way to
implement such a program.

Sometimes users may leave an application and never come back in a long
time.  In these cases it is a good idea to perform an automated action
to get the application out of an elevated privileges state or a state
that may endanger computer hardware.
